MTM-59622: User guide for Dynamic Access Mapping and User Data Mapping with ID token support (#2480)
SoftwareAG/c8y-docs: content/authentication/sso-bundle/custom-template.md

Be aware that the body field of each request, after filling placeholders with values, is sent in the request 'as is'. This means it is not encoded by {{< product-c8y-iot >}}. Many authorization servers require values inside the body to be URL-encoded (x-form-urlencoded). This can be achieved by entering already encoded values in a body field.
{{< /c8y-admon-info >}}

> Specifying a logout request is optional. It performs [front-channel single logout](https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-frontchannel-1_0.html). If configured as request parameter, the user is redirected to the defined authorization server logout URL after logging out from {{< product-c8y-iot >}}. If the OpenID Connect standard is used for the integration with the authorization server, the ID token should be passed as the `id_token_hint` parameter in the logout request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Specifying a logout request is optional. It performs a [front-channel single logout](https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-frontchannel-1_0.html). If configured as a request parameter, you are redirected to the defined authorization server logout URL after logging out from {{< product-c8y-iot >}}. If you use the OpenID Connect standard for the integration with the authorization server, the ID token should be passed as the `id_token_hint` parameter in the logout request.
```

| Audience                                   |Expected aud parameter of JWT
| Visible on Login screen                    |Indicates whether the login option is enabled or not

> Each time a user logs in, the content of the access token and id token is verified and serves as the basis for the user's access to the {{< product-c8y-iot >}} platform. The following section provides the mapping between JWT claims and access to the platform.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each time a user logs in, the content of the access token and ID token is verified and serves as the basis for the user's access to the {{< product-c8y-iot >}} platform. The following section provides the mapping between JWT claims and access to the platform.
```

> The administrator can define **Source of dynamic access mapping**. The JWT claims can be retrieved from both the access token and the ID token.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The administrator can define the source of dynamic access mapping. The JWT claims can be retrieved from both the access token and the ID token.
```

Author: I can accept the suggetion but I wanted to highlight that **Source of dynamic access mapping** is a specific section: 
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/669bc8a1-3bd2-43e4-823c-ae50e158256c)

Author: @MWindel  do You think that it better to skip ** marks in that context ?

Reviewer 2: @kowam-c8y I would remove the bold formatting. Or rephrase it in the following way: Under **Source of dynamic access mapping**, you can specify the source from which the JWT claims are retrieved, either access token or ID token.

> Under Source of dynamic access mapping, the administrator can specify the source from which the JWT claims are retrieved, either access token or ID token.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

Under **Source of dynamic access mapping**, the administrator can specify the source from which the JWT claims are retrieved, either access token or ID token.
```

 ![Custom access mapping](/images/users-guide/Administration/sso-custom-access-mapping-source-principle.png)

> Under Dynamic access mapping principle you can select one of the following options:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Under **Dynamic access mapping principle** you can select one of the following options:
```

> The user access mapping configuration also provides the following **Dynamic access mapping principle** as options:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The user access mapping configuration also provides the following dynamic access mapping principle as options:
```

Author: Similar as above:
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/035d6045-077c-47c1-9576-4469ec6eaf81)

Reviewer 2: I would also remove the bold formatting here. We don´t use it in this "in-text" manner. Again, you could say "Under **Dynamic access mapping principle** you can select one of the following options."

> * **Use dynamic access mapping only on user creation** - when selected, dynamic access mapping will be used only when a new user logs in to fill in the initial roles. When a user already exists in {{< product-c8y-iot >}}, the roles will not be overwritten nor updated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Use dynamic access mapping only on user creation**: When selected, dynamic access mapping will be used only when a new user logs in to fill in the initial roles. When a user already exists in {{< product-c8y-iot >}}, the roles will not be overwritten nor updated.
```

> * **Roles selected in the rules above will be reassigned to a user on each log in and other ones will be unchanged** - when selected, dynamic access mapping is used on every login, but the roles not listed in the access mapping configuration are not updated. Only the global roles, default applications and device groups that are listed in the defined access mapping rules are overwritten.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Roles selected in the rules above will be reassigned to a user on each log in and other ones will be unchanged**:  When selected, dynamic access mapping is used on every login, but the roles not listed in the access mapping configuration are not updated. Only the global roles, default applications and device groups that are listed in the defined access mapping rules are overwritten.
```

> * **Roles selected in the rules above will be reassigned to a user on each log in and other ones will be cleared** -The default. Dynamic access mapping assigns user roles, based on the token, on every user login. It is not possible to change the user roles inside {{< product-c8y-iot >}} as they would be overwritten on the next user login. To change this behavior, select one of the remaining options.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Roles selected in the rules above will be reassigned to a user on each log in and other ones will be cleared**: This is the default. Dynamic access mapping assigns user roles, based on the token, on every user login. It is not possible to change the user roles inside {{< product-c8y-iot >}} as they would be overwritten on the next user login. To change this behavior, select one of the remaining options.
```

> Selecting one of the two options mentioned above will also enable admins to edit roles of SSO users in the user management. For details, refer to [Managing permissions](/standard-tenant/managing-permissions/#assign-global-roles).

Reviewer 2: 3 options?

Author: I meant "Selecting either of the first two options " :) It's fixed

| Audience                                   |Expected aud parameter of JWT
| Visible on Login screen                    |Indicates whether the login option is enabled or not

> Each time a user logs in, the content of the access token and ID token is verified and serves as the basis for the user's access to the {{< product-c8y-iot >}} platform. The following section provides the mapping between JWT claims and access to the platform.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each time you log in, the content of the access token and ID token is verified and serves as the basis for your access to the {{< product-c8y-iot >}} platform. The following section provides the mapping between JWT claims and access to the platform.
```

Under **Source of dynamic access mapping**, the administrator can specify the source from which the JWT claims are retrieved, either access token or ID token.

 ![Custom access mapping](/images/users-guide/Administration/sso-custom-access-mapping-source-principle.png)

Under **Dynamic access mapping principle** you can select one of the following options:

> * **Use dynamic access mapping only on user creation**: When selected, dynamic access mapping will be used only when a new user logs in to fill in the initial roles. When a user already exists in {{< product-c8y-iot >}}, the roles will not be overwritten nor updated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Use dynamic access mapping only on user creation**: When selected, the dynamic access mapping will be used only when a new user logs in to fill in the initial roles. When a user already exists in {{< product-c8y-iot >}}, the roles will not be overwritten nor updated.
```

> * **Roles selected in the rules above will be reassigned to a user on each log in and other ones will be unchanged**:  When selected, dynamic access mapping is used on every login, but the roles not listed in the access mapping configuration are not updated. Only the global roles, default applications and device groups that are listed in the defined access mapping rules are overwritten.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Roles selected in the rules above will be reassigned to a user on each log in and other ones will be unchanged**:  When selected, the dynamic access mapping is used on every login, but the roles not listed in the access mapping configuration are not updated. Only the global roles, default applications and device groups that are listed in the defined access mapping rules are overwritten.
```

> * **Roles selected in the rules above will be reassigned to a user on each log in and other ones will be cleared**: This is the default. Dynamic access mapping assigns user roles, based on the token, on every user login. It is not possible to change the user roles inside {{< product-c8y-iot >}} as they would be overwritten on the next user login. To change this behavior, select one of the remaining options.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Roles selected in the rules above will be reassigned to a user on each log in and other ones will be cleared**: This is the default. The dynamic access mapping assigns user roles, based on the token, on every user login. It is not possible to change the user roles inside {{< product-c8y-iot >}} as they would be overwritten on the next user login. To change this behavior, select one of the remaining options.
```

> Selecting either of the first two options mentioned above will also allow admins to edit the roles of SSO users in user management. For details, refer to [Managing permissions](/standard-tenant/managing-permissions/#assign-global-roles).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you select either of the first two options mentioned above, this will also allow administrators to edit the roles of SSO users in the user management. For details, refer to [Managing permissions](/standard-tenant/managing-permissions/#assign-global-roles).
```

> The dynamic access mapping configuration allows defining the rules for assigning roles to users based on JWT claims. The rule that matches the token's value is used to assign the appropriate set of roles to the user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The dynamic access mapping configuration allows you to define the rules for assigning roles to users based on JWT claims. The rule that matches the token's value is used to assign the appropriate set of roles to the user.
```

The user will be granted access to the global role "business", the default application "cockpit" and the inventory roles "Manager" and "Reader" for the device group named "region north".

> If no access mapping matches the user token, the user will get an "access denied" message when trying to log in. This will also happen if there is no access mapping defined causing all users to be unable to log in using SSO.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If no access mapping matches the user token, you will get an "access denied" message when trying to log in. This will also happen if there is no access mapping defined causing all users to be unable to log in using SSO.
```

 }
 ```

On user login, user data like first name, last name, email and phone number can also be derived from JWT claims. Using the **Source of user data mapping** radio button, the administrator can decide whether the values should be retrieved from the access token or the ID token.

> Based on that, the **User data mappings** can be configured:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Based on that, the user data mappings can be configured:
```

Based on that, the user data mappings can be configured:

![User data mappings](/images/users-guide/Administration/sso-custom-userdata-mapping.png)

Each field represents the claim name that is used to retrieve the data from JWT. The user data mapping configuration is optional and as admin manager you can only use the required fields. If the configuration is empty or the claim name cannot be found in the JWT token then the values in the user data are set as empty.

Mapping for alias is not available because it is not used in the context of SSO login.

The username claim name can be configured in the **User ID** configuration window.
The user ID can be set to any top-level field of the authorization token payload sent from the authorization server to the platform during the login process. We recommend you inspect the authorization token in the audit logs to make sure the correct field is used (see [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting)).

> If the **Use constant value** checkbox is selected, a constant user ID is used for all users who log in to the {{< product-c8y-iot >}} platform via SSO. This means that all users who log in via SSO share the same user account in the {{< product-c8y-iot >}} platform. Usage of this option is not recommended.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you check the **Use constant value** checkbox, a constant user ID is used for all users who log in to the {{< product-c8y-iot >}} platform via SSO. This means that all users who log in via SSO share the same user account in the {{< product-c8y-iot >}} platform. We do not recommend you to use this option.
```
